# EmbeddedSystemsLabCodes

In the lab session of lecture, Atmega328 is used.
##  -Experiment 1 Code Compilation and Simulation
Purpose: Become familiar with the development tools used in the experiments.
Learn compilation and simulation steps to verify microcontroller programs.

##  -Experiment 2 Input Port Pins and Execution Timing
Purpose: Read MCU port inputs and control an output port according to the input
values. Precisely adjust timing of output signals generated by the MCU code.

##  -Experiment 3 Edge Detection and Delay Generation
Purpose: Detect signal transitions at the MCU port inputs to control the LED rotation
(as opposed to the level-sensitive control in the previous experiment). Use delay
functions for periodic operations.

##  -Experiment 4 LCD Module and Time Markers
Purpose: Display variables on an LCD (liquid crystal display) module. Monitor
execution time of operations using pins of a microcontroller as time markers.

##  -Experiment 5 Analog Input Output
Purpose: Sample an analog signal using the analog-to-digital converter (ADC)
available on the MCU. Display the ADC results on a LCD. Use an external digital-toanalog
converter (DAC) to obtain analog output.

##  -Experiment 6 Timers and Interrupts
Purpose: Use timers to generate a Pulse Width Modulation (PWM) waveform and to
perform certain tasks in an Interrupt Service Routine (ISR) with precise timing.

##  -Experiment 7 Interrupts and Data Flow
Purpose: Eliminate the CPU time wasted in LCD operations. The LCD is a slow
device that requires 50 μs to execute a single display command. Therefore
ATmega328 CPU must wait at least 50 μs before sending another LCD command.
The functions provided in LCDmodule.c waste CPU time in delay functions to assure
proper operation of the LCD. A better solution is to send LCD commands in an ISR
invoked by a timer interrupt generated every 50 μs. The LCD commands are queued
in a circular buffer in memory and the ISR sends the commands to LCD one at a
time.

##  -Experiment 8 Serial Data Transmission
Purpose: Establish serial communication between the MCU and a personal
computer. Utilize the USART module and the related interrupt functions to perform
serial I/O operations. Optimize timing of serial I/O functions by using a circular queue
buffer to store the data to be transmitted.
